tiproxy: add traffic replay doc (#18948)
pingcap/docs: tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.md

Starting from TiProxy v1.3.0, you can use TiProxy to capture access traffic in a TiDB production cluster and replay it in a test cluster at a specified rate. This feature enables you to reproduce actual workloads from the production cluster in a test environment, verifying SQL statement execution results and performance.

<img src="https://download.pingcap.com/images/docs/tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.png" alt="TiProxy traffic replay" width="800" />

## Use cases

Traffic replay is suitable for the following scenarios:

- **Validate TiDB version upgrades**: Replay production traffic on a test cluster with a new TiDB version to verify if the new TiDB version can successfully execute all SQL statements.
- **Assess change impact**: Simulate production traffic on a test cluster to validate the impact of changes on the cluster. For example, verify the effects before modifying configuration items or system variables, altering table schemas, or enabling new TiDB features.

> - **Validate performance before TiDB scaling**: Replay traffic at corresponding rates on a test cluster with a new scale to verify if the performance meets requirements. For example, to plan a 50% cluster downscale for cost savings, replay traffic at half speed to verify if SQL latency meets requirements after scaling.

Reviewer: I assume that `Validate` means `check the validation of`, does it also have the meaning of `verify`?

    By default, SQL statements are executed at the same rate as in the production cluster, and each database connection corresponds to a connection in the production cluster to simulate the production load and ensure consistent transaction execution order.

    For example, the following command connects to the TiProxy instance at `10.0.1.10:3080` using username `u1` and password `123456`, reads traffic files from the `/tmp/traffic` directory on the TiProxy instance, and replays the traffic:

    ```shell
    tiproxyctl traffic replay --host 10.0.1.10 --port 3080 --username="u1" --password="123456" --input="/tmp/traffic"
    ```

    Because all traffic runs under user `u1`, ensure `u1` can access all databases and tables. If no such user exists, create one.

    For more information, see [`tiproxyctl traffic replay`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-command-line-flags.md#traffic-replay).

5. View the replay report.

    After replay completion, the report is stored in the `tiproxy_traffic_report` database on the test cluster. This database contains two tables: `fail` and `other_errors`.

    The `fail` table stores failed SQL statements, with the following fields:

>     - `cmd_type`: the type of a failed SQL statement, such as `Query` (execute an ordinary statement), `Prepare` (prepare a statement), and `Execute` (execute a prepared statement).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `cmd_type`: the type of a failed command, such as `Query` (execute an ordinary statement), `Prepare` (prepare a statement), and `Execute` (execute a prepared statement).
```

    - `sample_err_msg`: the error message when the SQL statement failed.
    - `sample_conn_id`: the connection ID recorded in the traffic file for the SQL statement. You can use this to view the execution context in the traffic file.
    - `sample_capture_time`: the execution time recorded in the traffic file for the SQL statement. You can use this to view the execution context in the traffic file.
    - `sample_replay_time`: the time when the SQL statement failed during replay. You can use this to view error information in the TiDB log file.
    - `count`: the number of times the SQL statement failed.

    The `other_errors` table stores unexpected errors, such as network errors or database connection errors, with the following fields:

    - `err_type`: the type of error, represented by a brief error message. For example, `i/o timeout`.
    - `sample_err_msg`: the complete error message when the error first occurred.
    - `sample_replay_time`: the time when the error occurred during replay. You can use this to view error information in the TiDB log file.
    - `count`: the number of occurrences for this error.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > The table structure of `tiproxy_traffic_report` might change in future versions. It is not recommended to directly read data from `tiproxy_traffic_report` in your application or tool development.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > The table schema of `tiproxy_traffic_report` might change in future versions. It is not recommended to directly read data from `tiproxy_traffic_report` in your application or tool development.
```

## Test throughput

To test cluster throughput, use the `--speed` option to adjust the replay rate.

> For example, `--speed=2` executes SQL statements at twice the rate, halving the total replay time:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, `--speed=2` executes SQL statements at twice the rate, reducing the total replay time by half:
```

```shell
tiproxyctl traffic replay --host 10.0.1.10 --port 3080 --username="u1" --password="123456" --input="/tmp/traffic" --speed=2
```

Increasing the replay rate only reduces idle time between SQL statements and does not increase the number of connections. When session idle time is already short, increasing the speed might not effectively improve throughput. In such cases, you can deploy multiple TiProxy instances to replay the same traffic files simultaneously, increasing concurrency to improve throughput.

## View and manage tasks

> During capture and replay, tasks automatically stop if unknown errors occur. To view current task progress or error information from the last task, use the [`tiproxyctl traffic show`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-command-line-flags.md#traffic-show) command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During capture and replay, tasks automatically stop if unknown errors occur. To view the current task progress or error information from the last task, use the [`tiproxyctl traffic show`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-command-line-flags.md#traffic-show) command:
```

```shell
tiproxyctl traffic show --host 10.0.1.10 --port 3080
```

For example, the following output indicates a running capture task:

```json
[
   {
      "type": "capture",
      "start_time": "2024-09-03T09:10:58.220644+08:00",
      "duration": "2h",
      "output": "/tmp/traffic",
      "progress": "45%",
      "status": "running"
   }
]
```

For more information, see [`tiproxyctl traffic show`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-command-line-flags.md#traffic-show).

To cancel the current capture or replay task, use the [`tiproxyctl traffic cancel`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-command-line-flags.md#traffic-cancel) command:

```shell
tiproxyctl traffic cancel --host 10.0.1.10 --port 3080
```

For more information, see [`tiproxyctl traffic cancel`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-command-line-flags.md#traffic-cancel).

## Limitations

> - TiProxy only supports replaying traffic files captured by TiProxy and does not support other file formats. Therefore, the production cluster must first use TiProxy to capture traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiProxy only supports replaying traffic files captured by TiProxy and does not support other file formats. Therefore, make sure to capture traffic from the production cluster using TiProxy first.
```

> - TiProxy traffic replay does not support filtering SQL types and DML and DDL statements are replayed. Therefore, you need to restore the cluster data to its pre-replay state before replaying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiProxy traffic replay does not support filtering SQL types and DML and DDL statements are replayed. Therefore, you need to restore the cluster data to its pre-replay state before replaying again.
```
